[ADD] Time Off - Time off types (#17767)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/time_off/time_off_types.rst

==============
Time off types
==============

When employees request time off, they must specify the *type* of time off they are requesting, such
as sick time, vacation time, etc. The time off type dictates how the request is made (hours, half

> days, or days), and how it is approved.

Reviewer: i don't see this clarified in the sections below -- _how_ does the type change those things? if you do add clarifying details:
- could go in the respective sections
- consider rephrasing "how the _request is made_" to something like "how the _time off is measured_"
-

Reviewer: or are these just examples of what is determined by type? if so, we could clarify "several things including"

> One of the first things that requires configuration in the **Time Off** app are the time off types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the first things that requires configuration in the **Time Off** app is the time off types.
```

Reviewer: also: consider making this the first sentence of the article

To view the currently configured time off types, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app -->
Configuration --> Time Off Types`. The time off types are presented in a list view.

The **Time Off** app comes with six preconfigured time off types: :guilabel:`Paid Time Off`,

> :guilabel:`Sick Time Off`, :guilabel:`Unpaid`, :guilabel:`Compensatory Days`, :guilabel:`Extra Time

Reviewer: consider a bulleted list so you can add definitions, in particular the latter 3

> Off`, and :guilabel:`Extra Hours` . These can be modified to suit business needs, or used as-is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Off`, and :guilabel:`Extra Hours`. These can be modified to suit business needs, or used as-is.
```

> Create time off type

Reviewer: consider removing, so sections are immediately visible in toc

====================

To create a new time off type, navigate to :menuselection:`Time Off app --> Configuration --> Time
Off Types`. From here, click the :guilabel:`New` button to reveal a blank *Time Off Type* form.
Then, enter the following information on the form.

.. note::
   The only **required** fields on the time off type form are the name of the :guilabel:`Time Off
   Type`, the :guilabel:`Duration Type` field, and the :guilabel:`Count as` field. In addition, the

>    *Time Off Requests* section **must** be configured.

Reviewer: - consider specifying **approval** field instead of _time off requests_ section
- consider formatting as list

General information section
---------------------------

This section outlines the high-level information for the time off type. Enter the following

> information in the top-half of the form:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information at the top of the form:
```

- :guilabel:`Time Off Type`: Enter the name for the particular type of time off, such as `Vacation`
  or `Bereavement`.
- :guilabel:`Duration Type`: Select the format the time off is requested in by clicking the
  corresponding radio button. The options are:

>   - :guilabel:`Day`: Time off can only be requested in full day increments (8 hours).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - :guilabel:`Day`: Time off can only be requested in full-day increments (8 hours).
```

>   - :guilabel:`Half Day`: Time off can only be requested in half day increments (4 hours).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - :guilabel:`Half-Day`: Time off can only be requested in half-day increments (4 hours).
```

  - :guilabel:`Hours`: Time off can be taken in hourly increments.

- :guilabel:`Count as`: Using the drop-down menu, select how the time off type is considered in

>   terms of accrual plans. Select :guilabel:`Worked Time` if the time off *does* count, select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Count as`: Using the drop-down menu, select whether the time off type is counted toward accrual plans. Select :guilabel:`Worked Time` if the time off *does* count, select
```

  :guilabel:`Absence` if it does *not* count toward any type of accrual.
- :guilabel:`Notify HR`: Select the user who is notified and responsible for approving requests and
  allocations for this specific type of time off. If this field is left blank, no one is notified.

> - :guilabel:`Company`: If multiple companies are created in the database, and this time off type

Reviewer: consider linking to [multi-company](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/applications/general/companies/multi_company.html)

  only applies to one company, select the company from the drop-down menu. If this field is left
  blank, the time off type applies to all companies in the database. This field **only** appears in
  a multi-company database.
- :guilabel:`Country`: If multiple countries are associated with the database, and this time off
  type is restricted to one country, select the country from the drop-down menu. If this field is
  left blank, the time off type applies to all countries. This field **only** appears in a
  multi-country database.

.. image:: time_off_types/top-half-to-type.png
   :alt: The top half of the time off type form, with all the generic information populated.

.. _time_off/time-off-requests:

Time off requests section
-------------------------

This section determines how approvals are handled for time off requests for this time off type.

- :guilabel:`Approval`: Select what specific kind of approval is required for the time off type. The

>   options are:

Reviewer: consider removing bullet formatting on **approval**, so options are at base level

  - :guilabel:`None Needed`: No approvals are required when requesting this type of time off. The
    time off request is automatically approved.

>   - :guilabel:`By Time Off Officer`: Only the specified time off officer, set on this form in the

Reviewer: consider linking to _general info section_

    :guilabel:`Notify HR` field, is required to approve the time off request. This option is

>     selected, by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    selected by default.
```

  - :guilabel:`By Employee's Approver`: Only the employee's specified approver for time off, which

>     is configured in the *Settings* tab of the :ref:`employee's form <employees/approvers>`, is

Reviewer: consider linking like the bullet below, instead of explaining

    required to approve the time off request.
  - :guilabel:`By Employee's Approver and Time Off Officer`: Both the employee's :ref:`specified
    time off approver <employees/approvers>` and the time off officer are required to approve the
    time off request.

Allocation requests section
---------------------------

This section determines how allocation requests are handled for this time off type.

- :guilabel:`Requires allocation`: If the time off must be allocated to employees, enable the
  checkbox. If the time off can be requested without time off being previously allocated, uncheck
  the box. If unchecked, no other options appear in the *Allocation Requests* section.

> - :guilabel:`Allow Employee Requests`: Enable the checkbox if the employee is able to request more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Allow Employee Requests`: Enable the checkbox if the employee should be able to request more
```

Reviewer: also i believe our [updated style](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_W9aY_N3P4cpNWuCmFjNiOGCojVL0NxcXm8OepC4VuY/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.remokvf1iykc) is to use _select/check/tick_!

  time off than was allocated.

  If employees should **not** be able to make requests for more time off than what was allocated,
  leave the box unchecked.

  .. example::
     Ten days are allocated to the employee for this particular type of time off, and the
     :guilabel:`Allow Employee Requests` option is enabled. The employee wants to take a vacation
     for twelve days. They may submit a request for two additional days, since the :guilabel:`Allow
     Employee Requests` option is enabled.

  .. important::
     It is important to note that requesting additional time off does **not** guarantee that time

>      off is granted.

Reviewer: consider adding to the previous admonition to say
> pending approval / must also be approved, according to next field

to avoid back-to-back admonition blocks

- :guilabel:`Approval`: Select the type of approvals required for the allocation of this particular
  time off type.

  - :guilabel:`None Needed`: No approvals are required when requesting additional allocations for
    the time off type. The allocation request is automatically approved.
  - :guilabel:`By Time Off Officer`: Only the specified time off officer, set on this form in the
    :guilabel:`Notify HR` field, is required to approve the allocation request. This option is
    selected, by default.
  - :guilabel:`By Employee's Approver`: Only the employee's specified approver for time off, which
    is set on the *Work Information* tab on the :ref:`employee's form <employees/work-info-tab>`, is
    required to approve the allocation request.
  - :guilabel:`By Employee's Approver and Time Off Officer`: Both the employee's :ref:`specified
    time off approver <employees/work-info-tab>` and the time off officer are required to approve

>     the allocation request.

Reviewer: if you update the copy in _time off requests section_, make sure to update here as well

.. image:: time_off_types/allocation-section.png
   :alt: The allocation section all filled out for  a new time off type.

Configuration section
---------------------

This section determines all other details regarding the time off type, aside from approvals and
allocations.

- :guilabel:`Ignore Public Holidays`: Enable this option if public holidays should *not* be included
  in time off requests.

  .. example::
     An employee in the United States requests time off for the week of July 4th, for a total of
     five days. Since the 4th of July is a holiday in the United States, the time off request is
     automatically modified to use four vacation days and one public holiday, instead of five
     vacation days. That is because the holiday is ignored, and the user does not need to use their
     own vacation time for a public holiday.

     This option reduces extra work for users, enabling them to make only one time off request for
     the entire week, instead of making two separate requests, one for the days *before* the
     holiday, and another one for the days *after* the holiday.

> - :guilabel:`Hide On Dashboard`: Enable this option if time off using this time off type should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Hide On Dashboard`: Enable this option if this type of time off should
```

  *not* appear on the dashboard.
- :guilabel:`Require Supporting Document`: Enable this option if the employee **must** attach
  documents to the time off request. This is useful in situations where documentation is required,
  such as long-term medical leave or jury duty.
- :guilabel:`Deduct Extra Hours`: Enable this option if the time off request should factor in any
  extra time accrued by the employee.

  .. example::
     If an employee works two extra hours for the week, and requests five hours of time off, the
     request would be for three hours, since the two extra worked hours are used first, and deducted

>      from the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     two extra worked hours are counted toward
     the request. As a result, the time off request only uses three hours of the employee's accrual.
```

> - :guilabel:`Eligible for Accrual Rate`: Enable this checkbox if the time off type is included when
>   calculating worked time for an accrual plan. This is enabled by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Eligible for Accrual Rate`: Enable this checkbox if the time off type can be
  earned through an accrual plan. This is enabled by default.
```

Author: This is actually hte opposite of what it means - if this is enabed, then when you take time off using that time off type, that time off counts towards accrual plans. So if you "earn" an hour of vacation for every week you work, then i fyou took off "Vacation tie" that has this enabled, thhen you woudl still earn that hour for the weke of vacations. if it was disbale,d then you wouldn't.

- :guilabel:`Allow Request on Top`: Enable this checkbox if the employee can request additional time

>   off types, stacked on top of this one.

Reviewer: i can't tell whether this means:
1. they can use different types in separate requetss, on a single day/consecutively, OR
2. they can use different types in a single request

do we know the exact functionality? if so, clarifying details would be nice

Negative cap section
--------------------

> Enable the :guilabel:`Allow Negative Cap` option if employees are able to request more time off than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the :guilabel:`Allow Negative Cap` option if employees should be able to request more time off than
```

they currently have, allowing a negative balance. If enabled, an :guilabel:`up to` field appears. In
this field, enter the maximum amount of negative time allowed, in days.

.. example::

>    Sara currently has three days of the time off type `Vacation`. She is planning a trip that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Sara currently has three days of the `Vacation` time off type. She is planning a trip that
```

   requires five days of time off.

   The `Vacation` time off type has the :guilabel:`Allow Negative Cap` option enabled, and the
   :guilabel:`Maximum Excess Amount` is set to five.

   These settings allow Sara to submit a request for five days of the `Vacation` time off type. If
   approved, her `Vacation` time off balance will be negative two (-2) days.

> Payroll section

Reviewer: i'm also seeing a **Show On Payslip** field in 19.0 runbot!

    the allocation request.

.. image:: time_off_types/allocation-section.png
   :alt: The allocation section all filled out for  a new time off type.

Configuration section
---------------------

This section determines all other details regarding the time off type, aside from approvals and
allocations.

- :guilabel:`Ignore Public Holidays`: Enable this option if public holidays should *not* be included
  in time off requests.

  .. example::
     An employee in the United States requests time off for the week of July 4th, for a total of
     five days. Since the 4th of July is a holiday in the United States, the time off request is
     automatically modified to use four vacation days and one public holiday, instead of five
     vacation days. That is because the holiday is ignored, and the user does not need to use their
     own vacation time for a public holiday.

     This option reduces extra work for users, enabling them to make only one time off request for
     the entire week, instead of making two separate requests, one for the days *before* the
     holiday, and another one for the days *after* the holiday.

> - :guilabel:`Hide On Dashboard`: Enable this option if this type o time off should *not* appear on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Hide On Dashboard`: Enable this option if this type of time off should *not* appear on
```
